# host-switching_localscale_hostraits
host-switching_localscale_hostraits


"Can host traits facilitate host-switching events by parasites?"

Traits of host species are important drivers of interspecific parasite transmission and can be informative to predict whether the addition or replacement of new species to a parasite host spectrum can occur. In this study, we explore how the predicted host-switching intensity varies among host communities; how the functional diversity and phylogenetic host variability  are related  to the host-switching intensities in host communities; and which host traits are related to the host-switching intensities among host species in each host community and among host species independent of the host community. We used an individual-based model (D'Bastiani et al. In review) to estimate the host-switching at two levels: community and species. The model considers that parasites can explore and colonise hosts under variable host-switching intensity, with parasite evolution driven by mutation, genetic drift and mating restriction. We hypothesised that the host-switching intensities by parasites vary among host communities and these intensities are related to some hosts’ traits. We found that the optimal range of predicted host-switching intensity by parasites varied between host communities; the optimal range for the host communities wasn't associated with the functional diversity and phylogenetic host variability nor with host traits. At host species level, host-switching was associated with species-specific adult body mass, diet breadth, home range, population density, and litter size, but varied between host communities. Our results suggest that host traits likely determine host-switching events and that these events are relatively frequent in communities at a local spatial scale. However, these events can vary substantially not only between host-parasite associations, but also spatially and, thus, alter the diversification of the parasite. This suggests that host-switching is a highly context-dependent phenomenon.

Who is part of this survey? Elvira D’Bastiani, Karla M Campião, Débora Princepe, André de Camargo Guaraldo, Boris R. Krasnov,Sabrina LB Araujo
